well Israel has confirmed that from
Friday it will allow a limited number of
trucks carrying humanitarian Aid to
enter Gaza the raft for Crossing from
Egypt is the only gas and Crossing that
Israel doesn't control Israel controlled
its Crossings and began air strikes
after Hamas launched those Terror
attacks on October the 7th killing at
least 1,400 people the UN reports that
more than 3,000 deaths in Gaza since
then the water may be flowing but
there's no guarantee it's safe to drink
gaza's water supply is on the brink of
collapse the United Nations says more
than 2 million face dehydration and
waterborne
diseases as Gaza runs dry many have no
other option than to drink contaminated
water often we wait for 2 hours and at
the end we find out there is no water
anymore water is life no human can
survive with without water whether it's
drinkable or not no one can survive
without
water we fill these bottles just to go
back and find that it's not
drinkable in the South gin waited for
hours to buy fuel the population here
has swelled after hundreds of thousands
fled from northern
Gaza I've been waiting four or 5 hours
and now they say the diesel has run out
we don't know what to do we don't know
where to go the Israelis told us to
evacuate to this place but they kill us
here then they say go to that place they
follow us and kill us there also why do
they tell us to evacuate just kill us in
our
homes Israel has blocked supplies
through its Crossings into Gaza
following the terror attacks by Hamas
after talks with Israel and Egypt the US
announced a deal to allow a limited
amount of aid from Egypt into Gaza but
the United Nations says the besieged
territory needs
more we urgently need a mechanism agreed
by all relevant
parties to allow for the regular
provision of emergency needs throughout
Gaza to get the level of distribution of
assistance up to what it was before
these terrible weeks of 100 trucks a day
providing assistance throughout Gaza to
people in need we need to get back to
that level of
ambition in neighboring Egypt at the
Rafa border crossing trucks are waiting
for the green light to enter Gaza and
deliver the desperately needed
Aid well nor shawaf is humanitarian
policy adviser for Oxfam in the Middle
East she joins us from Beirut welcome to
DW um just talk us through why it's so
difficult at getting Aid into
Gaza indeed it's very to get Aid into
Raza at this very moment I would say
it's even impossible um aside from the
crossings being closed uh we're looking
at continued air strikes and bombardment
across Raza which makes humanitarian
operations very difficult and the
delivery of a to people who are trapped
within Gaza who have no food the very
minimal food who have no water who have
no electricity who are in need of an
utmost need for Urgent humanitarian
intervention not being able to access
those humanitarian interventions so
we're looking at people uh who are
constantly um looking for water
constantly looking for food constantly
looking for any sort of Aid that could
help them and their families survive
tell us more about the the lack of
access to to water what are your
colleagues on the ground telling you
about
that um since the very start of of the
escalation of the violence we know that
water supply has been cut off to uh to
the Raza strip um our colleagues are
telling us how um the people have are
having to drink contaminated water
because there simply isn't uh enough uh
clean water for drinking people do not
people are at the brink of um not being
able to drink at all but also you're
looking at water plants uh water pumps
and waste water plants that are
completely uh not functional uh you're
looking at um fuel that is not available
to uh operate uh those water plant and
waste water plants um uh our colleagues
uh and Oxfam has been warning of um
possible disease outbreak so we're
looking at possible waterbor diseases in
Raza including Kera which makes the
humanitarian situation which is already
catastrophic even more
catastrophic and we heard uh today about
these bombings in uh Southern Gaza as
far as you can tell is anywhere safe for
garans to shelter uh from air strikes
and
bombs nowhere is safe in Gazza anymore
and this is exactly what we've been
hearing from our colleagues in Gazza the
majority of oxam Staff in Gaza have been
displaced they're moving from one place
to the other and they're in us on daily
basis how nowhere in Gazza is safe even
designated safe shelters are no longer
considered safe because of the
bombardment and because of the air
strikes so we're looking at a situation
where uh people do not know where to go
we're looking at a situation where our
colleague yesterday was telling us how
he was going to buy bread for his family
and as he walked to the bakery he saw
people lying on the floor with no
mattresses with no blank kids how he saw
people sleeping in cars and in Open
Spaces in shops everywhere because there
aren't enough uh shelters and and even
those shelters are not
safe thank you so much for joining us uh
policy advisor for Oxfam in the Middle
East at nor
shaf thank
you Sarah Ali works with safe the
children which is also planning to send
Aid to Gaza through the Rafa Crossing
and I asked her what she had heard about
the Border
reopening so the situation is extremely
fluid as you know it's changing day by
day and hour by hour at the moment our
trucks to save the children trucks are
at the border and we're ready to go and
deliver Aid when it is safe to do so in
partnership with the Egyptian red
crescent um but what's important to
remember is that this is delivering food
water the most B basic needs and Gaza is
an extremely densely populated um small
patch of land home to 2.2 million people
half of which are children so even
before the recent escalations in
violence 80% of people in Gaza depended
on International Aid so it's absolutely
imperative that we can get in there
safely and deliver the aid to people who
need it most and to
children now the deal is to allow a
limited number of trucks in can that
really make a
difference it's very difficult to say as
I said the situation is so fluid and
Gaza is a small strip of land 365 square
kilometers and right now people are
rationing food they're rationing water
and they need electricity so the type of
Aid that we have ready to go is you know
hygiene kits this is basic things that
people need to survive
as well as food and water soap
toothbrushes we're looking at really
basic things that need to go through and
the sheer scale of the issue is so big
with over a million people looking
around um in Gaza almost displaced so we
really need a lot of Aid to go through
now what kind of support and access do
Aid organizations like yours actually
need to continue working in the
area well first and foremost we
absolutely need a ceasefire and we need
all parties to agree to that it's almost
impossible to deliver Aid and give
people supplies if you're under constant
bombardment so we need a ceasefire we
need a deescalation of the violence we
need the violence to stop and we also
need all parties to adhere to
International humanitarian law so
protecting civilian spaces like
hospitals and schools where people are
Sheltering is absolutely
imperative sorry Ali there from save the
children thank you very much for your
time thank
you bahir am journalist from Cairo told
us why it is so complicated to get Aid
into
Gaza um so at this point Egypt has
maintained that it has never actually
closed the ra border crossing but that
four rounds of air strikes on the
Palestinian side have forced it closed
and again this is the only passage in
and out of Gaza um that is not
controlled by Israel so um so on one
side Egypt has maintained that it has
kept it that has kept it open but the
Palestinian side of the border crossing
has not been operational um meanwhile
there's this increasingly desperate
sense of urgency um while Egypt can't
guarantee safe passage of the aid that's
been piled up on its side of the Border
um so it was 3 days ago the who's
Regional director told my colleague that
Gaza had 24 hours left of essential
supplies anything that remains now is
being rationed beyond belief um and so
Egypt has said that it needs guarantees
of safe passage it needs to know that
trucks are not going to be targeted that
is not going that is going to be
delivered safely to where it needs to go
um and since Israel has bombed the
crossing the roads the trucks need to
take the safe areas that the aid would
get to um since they have been targeted
Egypt needs time to repair which is why
um President Joe Biden said last night
um that it likely won't be until Friday
although we're hoping for a sooner
timeline um and it would be up to 20
trucks obviously that's close to nothing
there are hundreds waiting in Northern
Cai to be allowed in but this can be
seen as first gesture um and if things
go well Egypt is committed to both
keeping ra open for a to come in and
humanitarian and medical cases to come
out uh for the people uh to come out is
that you just mentioned Egyptian
officials have made a deliverers into
Gaza a condition for the evacuation of
foreign passport holders what more do
you know about
that so the conversation on foreign
Nationals goes back to The First
Agreement from the first few days of the
war um the US had considered that
agreement all but done um that foreign
Nationals would be allowed uh to exit
Gaza but then we learned that Egypt had
made that conditional on humanitarian
Aid going in um what they said was that
the ra Crossing cannot be used only for
safe exit for foreign Nationals um so it
has been a point of communication for
European and world leaders who have
visited who visited KY who have spoken
with Egyptian leaders uh but we have not
learned more on that but now that we're
starting to see some movement um if
those 20 trucks make it safe make it
safely um we can imagine that we could
also see movement on foreign Nationals
um Egypt hasn't said anything explicitly
but um one medical when because it has
committed to Medical cases and
humanitarian cases coming out we can
imagine that they wouldn't just block
foreign Nationals as well here I'm in
there reporting from Cairo for us thank
Youk you
for